# Fitting Distributions Project

## Overview

A perennial problem in everyday life is weighing the truth of various hypotheses when presented some data.  In classical statistics, an example of this problem is estimating the best probability distribution that fits a sequence of samples.  This project recreates from scratch in python a number of core statistical methods used to address the problem of fitting distributions to data.  Additionally, I experiment with a number of optimization techniques to estimate those distribution parameters.  I show that these techniques are intractable due to limits in representing floating point numbers.

The problem of fitting distributions to data is useful for identifying statistical models that can then predict the data.  For example, suppose a company is collecting data on quarterly sales on their products.  I can model data on those sales as being generated by specific probability distributions, and I can then apply the methods discussed here to find the best distribution that fits the data.  This will then allow the company to predict how their quarterly sales might evolve in the future.  **The key takeaway is that the statistical modeling I demonstrate in this project can be helpful for making predictions about the things modeled.**

My key methods include **maximum likelihood estimation, Newton's method, gradient ascent, Z-tests, K-S tests, confidence intervals, posteriors, and Bayes factors**.

## Data Sets

## Statistical Methods

## Machine Learning Methods

## Experiments

## Results

## Discussion

## Further Reading
